But in any case, the four areas I was saying, those
four, we feel the mechanical engineering
profession, obviously this department,
addresses three of those in a major way, and that's
materials, productivity, and energy. Water
resources is an area that we don't get involved in
directly. We don't feel that's a major research
area for ourselves. The other three we address in a
major way. In the materials area, we feel that's a
very critical area for the future. It's as
critical as energy. We have a large material group
that's doing research in very basic
characterization of metals, looking at
techniques for more energy efficient mechanisms
for producing metals, looking at ways to improve
metals from both the alloying and surface
treatment. We are looking at ways to improve, for
instance, a utility of cast iron for very low
temperatures and very high temperature
application, looking at metals as it applies to
structures, for instance, gas turbines. And on
the other hand, we're making a large move toward
non-metal materials, plastics, composite
materials. It appears quite obvious that the
materials of the future are going to be quite
different than the materials of the past in the
sense of being... composite type materials. We
have a plastics engineering laboratory that's
concentrating on the manufacturing and
mechanical properties of high volume plastics,
short fiber composites, problems associated
with tooling and manufacturing. We just started a
packaging program, just hired a new faculty
member in that area. We feel obviously that
packaging in whatever form from cereal boxes to
spacecraft, packaging is a very important part of
our society. It consumes a lot of materials. It
consumes a lot of energies. We're a very
packaging-oriented society as opposed to a more
primitive society. Whether it's McDonald's,
hamburgers, or how do you get coal out of Montana,
packaging is an essential part of modern society.
So manufacturing and materials area is a rapidly
growing area and a very significant area, we
think, for the state and obviously the nation.
That touches on some of the research we're doing.
How do you fund this research? About our total
research budget that I mentioned, last year When
you talk about research dollars, you need to
specify a little bit. If I talk about research in
place, contracts in place during the last fiscal
year, it was about $2.25 million. If you talk about
cash flow, the dollars spent from the first fiscal
year to the last fiscal year, it's about $1.75
million, which means some of the contracts
overlap the beginning and the end of the year. Out
of that 1 and 3 quarter million, about 10% of state
funds or university funds from the engineering
experiment station. The rest is sponsored
research from other agencies. All of that, about a
rough guess, 60% to 65% would be from federal
agencies, the remainder from Texas industry.
What are some of the federal agencies that have
research ? Oh, NASA. Air Force, Department of
Energy, National Science Foundation,
Veterans Administration.
I don't think we have anything for the Navy right
now. Did I mention the Air Force Army?
Currently, we don't. I said Department of Energy.
Of course, Department of Energy takes care of a lot
of different areas. We did have some contracts,
which I'm not sure have terminated or are still in
effect from the nuclear side, Los Alamos
Laboratories.
That's the primary agencies. Another one doesn't
come to mind right now. This National Science
Foundation has been criticized by some members of
Congress financial research that's of an alleged
wasteful nature. Do you have any comment on this?
Well, not in engineering. I have some criticism
for National Science Foundation. But I
personally have seen no research National
Science Foundation has sponsored in engineering
that I have been associated with that I would
consider wasteful. Only in the extent, first let
me say what I believe an engineer is. And let me say
what I believe the difference between an engineer
and a scientist, what the differences are.
I think it has nothing to do with intellectual
capacity, but it has a difference to do with the
objective that the various professions have. I'd
like to characterize it. A scientist, whether
he's a physicist or a chemist, typically takes the
role and is educated to such an extent that he is
educated as an investigator, which we often use
the word investigator, and his search usually is
for a truth that's known but not known to him. It's a
fact in nature that is hidden and so he's He's
essentially searching for truth and knowledge
that's existing, but not necessarily uncovered.
An engineer, on the other hand, I think, as I often
say, has, if you may have noticed outside, it says
mechanical engineering is a creative
profession. I feel an engineer has to have the
ability to use the tools of a scientist. He has to
have the same skills of a... use the same
mathematical tools as a physicist. He has to have
the same ability to use a computer as a
mathematician. He has to be conversant with the
same chemistry as a chemical engineer does with a
chemist. But he has to have one more ingredient,
certainly in mechanical engineering. He has to
have the creative ability of an artist. He has to
have a mixture of both. Because he's not called
upon just to search for truth. but to typically
leave a product, to innovate something that came
out of his vision of his mind to solve a problem. And
so if you think about an engineer, and I don't mean
necessarily just a degree, many good physicists
or educated in physics are very good engineers.
But if you can talk about the difference in
attitude, an engineer
must have a strong visual capability. to be able to
see products that don't exist in nature but that he
is creating. And so the attitude between a
scientist and an engineer has to be somewhat
different. The same individual could obviously
be either. The National Science Foundation has
been
completely dominated by scientists. There are
essentially no engineers in the National Science
Foundation. Now, very recently there are a few,
primarily because of a large movement in
engineering to create a National Engineering
Foundation. And so there has been a movement by the
National Science Foundation to say, yes, we have
engineers too. In fact, the brand new director is
an engineer. But because the influence from
scientists was such that scientific research,
understanding the difference, was funded as
basic research and not basic engineering
research. There are certain areas that this
country is in serious problem, have a serious
problem. And I think if anyone has read the papers
about our productivity compared to the Japanese
and Europeans, there is some cause for concern.
And if one looks at where we have serious problems
in this country, we find that we really haven't
done any research improving productivity. We
really haven't developed better machines. We're
not competitive in machine tools, and light
equipment, and light appliances, and
automobiles even. We are competitive in
electronics today.
are competitive internationally in science in a
few areas. So I blame the National Science
Foundation for some of this, that the science, the
funding that has gone to engineering schools from
the government has been primarily from the
National Science Foundation. They've said,
well, you must do fundamental research in fluid
mechanics or material behavior. But no one has
been funding engineering development. A
criticism of the National Science Foundation is
not waste, but of directing all of its funds toward
science research and not engineering research.
And it's sort of come home to haunt us. I think
that's changing. Hope. Was there any other topic
we need to touch on about runoff questions? No.
You've got the history. I do recommend you go talk
to Charlie Crawford. He was the department head
before Dr. Simone. He's still living and still
alert? He's in his 90s. Right. He wrote a history on
this college. The first 100 years of the College of
Engineering. And so I don't know what you're
trying to accomplish in this project, whether
it's a history of technology or technology in this
school.
But he can probably give you a better perspective
of the changes over the last 50 years than Any
other, well, obviously any other living person,
both from the college and the department.
OK, I appreciate you taking the time to talk with
me.